Angela Davis thank you so much for
joining me on UPF front thank you Mark
uh in the midst of uh Israel's
Relentless attacks on Gaza uh numerous
black activists in the US have expressed
their solidarity with Palestinians and
they've called once again for an end to
the occupation uh back in 2020 in Gaza
City in the midst of black lives matter
protests a Palestinian artist painted a
large mural of George Floyd the
African-American man of course who had
recently been murdered by a police
officer in Minneapolis uh these two
places are more than 6,000 miles away
from each other yet Palestinians and
black Americans have found a common
cause with each other's struggles uh how
does a moment like that how do these
moments come to
be well um you know Mark for as about as
long as my political memory goes back I
think the causes of Palestine and black
liberation have been
intertwined and I I just can't imagine
uh that those of us who call ourselves
um scholar activists I can't uh imagine
um uh not uh calling for justice for
Palestine I can't imagine the whole uh
agenda of social justice in the world
not including uh Palestine uh and this
respect I think
um uh black people in um the US and
throughout the the uh the the the the
region of the west of this hemisphere
should feel a very special tie to
Palestinians of course there there is a
long history uh but I um you know I I
think back to June
Jordan the incredible poet when very few
people were talking about the importance
of supporting Palestine uh June was
upfront uh arguing that it was not only
necessary to support people in Palestine
but to recognize that that that that
Palestine itself is a kind of um moral
litmus test um for the world yeah of
course Nelson Mandela said that South
Africa would not be free as until
Palestine is free so Palestine um
occupies a very central place in the
political imagination of the last of uh
50 75 years a lot of people when they
hear the word solidarity uh they think
sameness uh but the conditions
between Black Folk and Palestinians the
conditions are different in certain ways
how much of the solidarity movement
hinges on us having the exact same
oppressive conditions and how much uh of
it is about the broader systems of power
that put us where we are how do we and
because I think a lot of people say well
I'm my life isn't like a Palestinian and
Palestinian says well I don't have to
deal with those things over there uh how
do you how do you tease that out those
who assume that they live in a very
small insulated space in the world uh uh
are are just not recognized ing
conditions as they are today uh uh we do
not live in silos uh uh we do not have
our little bubbles in which we get to
choose what affects us uh uh as as as as
individuals uh uh you know I think that
thatth what is really exciting about
this last period as much suffering as we
have witnessed and experienced um is
that we've seen um movements Against
Racism uh expand uh we would not have
imagined so many people identifying uh
with uh of these anti-racist uh efforts
and now of course you we're seeing you
know what uh we're seeing those who are
reacting against it uh uh and um you
know those who don't want to see us move
move forward uh in our understanding of
the way in which racism in the US is
very much connected to a paride in South
Africa which is very much uh connected
to a parade in in in in Israel um so
yeah this is a question that can't be
answered abstractly I think it's a it's
a question U that that has to play out
in the course of of the practice of
solidarity one of the things that's come
up in that practice of solidarity is
conversations about the role of policing
as well well uh for years there have
been exchange programs that bring
together police uh Ice uh border control
FBI all from the United States along
with uh soldiers police and Border
Agents from Israel uh to share tactics
on quote unquote counterterrorism uh
both the US and Israel have been accused
of repressive policing of racial
profiling uh and they continue to sort
of deepen their ties uh toward
developing a kind of shared security
model uh when you see those
relationships what can we learn from
that well those relationships uh that uh
link um the militarization of the police
and the Us and other countries uh to uh
the the leadership of of uh of Israel uh
the the IDF and which is trained police
forces all over the country uh uh it it
it it becomes um
clear I think that that all these issues
are intertwined uh uh you know let's
remember that uh cop city is developing
uh in Atlanta yeah and precisely at a
time when when when the police were on
the on the defensive as a consequence of
the struggles that were catalyzed by uh
the lynching of George Floyd uh um the
police were on a defensive uh for a
little while but now it appears as if
they're trying to not only regain the
position they had before but but but but
move forward uh and only and mean I was
just thinking it's it's not just
governments either right I mean private
entities are also involved in these
kinds of exchanges for example we've
seen the export of security and
Technology from private Israeli
companies that Supply some of Israel's
military equipment surveillance
equipment for things like the separation
wall uh between Israel and the West Bank
uh the same companies are working with
the US to provide technology for things
like bolstering surveillance and
militarization along the US Mexico
border when we see private corporations
benefiting uh from oppression even
through the discourse and language of
security uh that has the comp that
complicates the analysis a little bit
doesn't
it well I think that should probably be
at the center of the analysis uh uh you
know because we we often don't
explicitly talk about uh capitalism and
the reasons you know why the ties the
political ties between the US and Israel
for example are so strong uh what does
that have to do with the development of
global capitalism over the last decades
and you know what does the prison
Industrial complex have to do with uh
Shoring up a capitalist system uh that's
often times the elephant in the room
that's often times that about which we
do not speak but it is Central it is
absolutely Central you have a very Grand
radical uh Freedom dream for dismantling
capitalism for abolishing policing in
prisons and for ending the occupation of
Palestine I mean these are not
short-term goals these are not easy
solutions that we're looking for here
and in all of those areas we see
progress and then we see retrenchment we
see two steps forward and then we see
steps back sometimes one sometimes three
given where we are right now on the
question of Israel and Palestine do you
remain hopeful you know uh I don't think
that I get to uh
decide on that basis uh of course there
are moments when we feel uh extremely
distressed and this is you know one of
the um tragic uh moments uh in our
recent history uh but I also uh should
say that
um it takes
time it takes time and often times we
are unable to see where we're headed uh
uh but we have to believe that it is
possible to make change uh and we can't
give up we can't give up we can't not
hope uh because hope is the condition of
all
struggles we'll leave it there Angela
Davis thank you so much for joining me
on up
front thank you so much Mark
again